`<calc-sum>` - New CSS data type (#21935)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/calc-sum/index.md

---
title: <calc-sum>
slug: Web/CSS/calc-sum
page-type: css-type
tags:
  - CSS
  - CSS Data Type
  - Data Type
  - Layout
  - Reference
  - Web
browser-compat: css.types.calc-sum
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`<calc-sum>`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Types) represents an expression which perform a calculation in any [CSS math function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions#math_functions). The expression executes a basic arithmetic operation of addition and subtraction between two values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`<calc-sum>`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Types) represents an expression which performs a calculation in any [CSS math function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions#math_functions). The expression executes a basic arithmetic operation of addition and subtraction between two values.
```

## Syntax

> The `<calc-sum>` type defines two numeric values and one of the following [arithmetic operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Math#arithmetic_operators) between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<calc-sum>` type defines two numeric values and one of the following [arithmetic operators](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Math#arithmetic_operators) between them.
```

- `+`

  - : Adds two numbers together.

- `-`

  - : Subtracts the right number from the left.

### Formal syntax

{{CSSSyntax}}

## Description

> The operands in the expression may be any {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}} syntax value. You allowed to use {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;frequency&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, or {{cssxref("&lt;integer&gt;")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operands in the expression may be any {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}} syntax value. You can use {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;frequency&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, or {{cssxref("&lt;integer&gt;")}}.
```

> Different unit types can be used in a single expression. It's perfectly fine to combine different data types, for example subtracting `px` from `%` as followes `calc(100% - 10px)`, is a valid expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different unit types can be used in a single expression. For example, subtracting `px` from `%`, as in `calc(100% - 10px)`, is a valid expression.
```

> It is also allowed using expessions with [CSS variables](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Variables). The following code `calc(10px + var(--variable))`, is a valid expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Including [CSS variables](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Variables) in `calc-sum` expressions is also allowed. The following code `calc(10px + var(--variable))`, is a valid expression.
```
